---
title: Images and copyright
date: 2017-02-26
categories:
- posts
layout: post
summary: Clarifiation on copyright on exported images
---

In the past years I have received numerous questions about the usage and 
distribution of exported images in MolView (in particular from publishers). I 
want to clarify a few things in this article. Basically images exported in 
MolView are free to use for *ANY* purpose. The disclaimer at 
[molview.org/legal](http://molview.org/legal) is still valid though. I do not 
(legally) claim that any of the content in MolView is suitable for your purpose. 
For example, I am not responsible for erroneous content (so that is up to you to 
validate).

# Citation
When including images in a paper or another published work, you are *NOT* 
required to cite MolView. MolView is GPL (free) software, and on top of that 
citing software that was used to generate content it not required by copyright 
law. This is something I also fully support myself. More information: 
[gnu.org](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.en.html#RequireCitation).

The data used to generate images (molecule coordinates for example) are also not 
part of MolView. Instead they are retrieved from other sources such as PubChem. 
Without most users being aware, data from PubChem is used as program input to 
produce the images. If you are very concerned about citation, you can refer to 
the original source. This source can always be found in the *Tools* menu (for 
small molecules its *Tools > PubChem source*).

Of course there is nothing that prevents you from citing MolView. This is an 
article you could refer to: 
[divched.org](http://confchem.ccce.divched.org/2015FallCCCENLP9).

# Permission
So citation is not required, and neither is permission. As mentioned earlier, 
MolView is free software. Anyone is allowed to use and modify it under the terms 
of the AGPL-3.0 license. You do not need permission to use MolView or to use the 
images produces in MolView.
